i think that any student of history
anthropology perhaps the social scientists will agree that the type of age and era that we're
experiencing today is quite a unique one and the set of challenges that the young
men and women today are complaining of are certainly different to any other set of challenges perhaps
experienced in the past you don't have to look far and you don't have to extend your imagination too much
to realize why this is quite a strong argument you have an endless variety of sins in
all of their sizes in their shapes and forms available at the click of a button available on demand
and your average 13 14 year old today has seen more content in a week
that maybe his grandfather had seen during his lifetime those who are in search for fame
they don't have to do much or carry out extraordinary feats like perhaps they did 100 years ago
you need a selfie stick you need internet connection maybe you need a good quality camera
an instant fame it is moreover sins that usually needed
people for them to be sins in the eyes of allah like backstabbing there needs to be two or more people in a gathering for that
to happen slander gossip lying
defamation usually there has to be a group of people such that this sin can be facilitated
today it's a unique circumstance you don't need too many people in fact you can be a backbiter
slanderer you can be a thief you can be a liar god forbid
when you're by yourself you just need a keyboard so it's a unique time a time of deception
disillusionment boasting pride fake news hoaxes scams
therefore we are in a very challenging time to say the least and it's a unique set of circumstances that we are experiencing both as young
and old so these challenges we're speaking about we can comfortably say it is impossible
to deal with them it is impossible to manage them to navigate them let alone transform them into an islamic
opportunity without the help of allah and without triggering
certain actions of the heart to help you get through them and to sail safely
and this evening we want to speak about one of those actions of the heart that helps us do so and we have called it or the scholars
have described it as an meaning the watchfulness of allah
not so much the fact that allah is watching you we're talking about your consciousness
as a muslim that the watchful eye of allah subhanahu wa ta'ala is upon you
and his knowledge of you never fails this is murakaba so how do the scholars of islam define
this act of worship imam ibn he said perhaps this is one of the most wholesome definitions of murakama take
note of it he said in his book
is the constant state of knowledge and certainty that allah is observing your outward and
inward states quite self-explanatory is
a constant state of knowledge and certainty that allah subhanahu wa ta'ala is
observing your outward and inward state this is murakaba
and others have said like he said
it is the state of knowledge that sits in your heart that tells you allah is near
it is a state of knowledge that sits in your heart that tells you allah is allah is near
a person who experiences this is acting upon this phenomenal act of worship that sits in the heart it is called
the watchfulness of allah subhana maybe you've noticed as well just by looking at these definitions
the concept of murakada is very heavily intertwined with another key concept of ours in islam what is it
okay certainty undoubtedly as we shall find out
knowledge any other key concepts that come to mind consciousness yeah
are there any arabic terms the idea that you are aware that allah
subhanahu wa is constantly observing you yes exactly excellence
what is excellence it is the upper most part of our relationship with allah
it's the cream of the crop it's the gold standard muslim it's the highest part of your relationship with your lord
excellence we all know that islam has five pillars and then we know the level above it iman faith has
six pillars and then the highest level of them all excellence it has how many pillars just the one
where the prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam told angel jibril who said to him what did he say um
is for you to worship allah whereby you feel that you can see him but if you can't see him then know that
he can see you so do you see the link between the watchfulness of allah being conscious of his watchful eye that never
sleeps and excellence the highest part of your religion therefore
it is the base of all other actions of inward ibadah take note of this dear brothers dear
sisters what we are speaking about now is not just on another another list of the actions of worship that sit in the
heart like we're talking about something very different here the watchfulness of allah why because
you can say that murakabe is the base from which every other action of the heart stems from
as imam he says
is the foundation of every other action of the heart and it is the pillar
upon which every other worship is built upon the watchfulness of allah and then he says
if you were to think about every action of ibaadah the actions of the heart you will be able to trace it back to
murakaba and think about it it is true what are the two actions of the heart we've covered so far in this series
what was the first sincerity can there be sincerity if there is no
murakaba watchfulness of allah you have to be first very conscious of his watchful eye upon you then this will
sprout ikhlas sincerity you will be sincere but you have to first believe that he's watching you for you then to be sincere to that lord
what was the second act of worship we spoke about certainty can there be certainty in allah without
you first being aware of his watchful eye it all starts from here and in the future if allah gives us life
and we speak about other actions of the heart like the station of mahaba the love of
from the limits of allah subhanahu wa you will find that each and every one of them springs out from the fountain of
murakada to first be fully knowledgeable and certain that allah is observing
and you translate that theory into application he is watching me he hears me he sees me this then affects your
public and private affairs so this is murakaba with respect to its definitions and this is murakabu with
respect to its status it is the origin of all of the actions of the heart therefore it's only natural to say
that someone who manages to actualize murakaba or parts of it in his or her life because it's a work in progress in all of our lives
this person can expect their hands to be filled with abundance by allah what are the promises of our lord
towards those who become people of murakaba remember this is not an actual worship that you can see
it's not something you can drink taste smell touch it's something that you experience as a
believer that's its only reality something that sits in your heart
yet it is so dear to allah it has life-changing properties for those who achieve it or part of it
what will allah award those muslims of especially those muslims of the 21st century who have everything at their
disposal the first dear brothers and sisters who will award the people of murakaba
with sovereignty on the land allah will establish them on the earth
those who complain of transgression the oppression of the wrongdoers the stealing of land the usurping of resources
episodes that we keep seeing unfolding in our eyes week after week year after year what is the way out of this it's a
multifaceted answer but it has to begin with murakada to be an or that is watchful of allah
these are the people who deserve is establishing on the earth and to be given victory and aid by the lord
otherwise what is the point what is the point of giving muslims authority and sovereignty over their affairs if they're going to backbite
each other and kill each other and imprison one another and enslave one another what is the use and that is why allah
who said in surah ibrahim a conversation between the prophets and the disbelievers of the era what was the
conversation the disbelievers they said to their
messengers
[Music]
we're going to exile you from our lands or you either come back to our way
so allah revealed to the prophets saying to them we are going to destroy the wrongdoers
and we are going to cause you to live in the land after them who does this belong to listen the ali khaliman
but this will be for those who fear the standing before me
and those who fear my threat so according to this area who are the people whom allah will give istikhalaf
sovereignty in the land they are the muslims who fear the standing before their lord on the day of judgment
then allah will give them the dunya as a byproduct till that is achieved we can continue to see what we are seeing happening in the
news over and over again so when we come together in the masjid and we work towards establishing our
we're working towards a much bigger picture than you think it's your religion that you are establishing but your dunya is well
it's your individual safety and the safety of the ummah number one allah awards the people of morocco
he gives them sovereignty on the land number two allah subhanahu wa ta'ala gives the people of murakaba a taste
of the flavor of iman and those of you who've experienced it may allah allow us all to experience it
we'll know that is a life-changing experience and once you taste it once you live the rest of your life chasing
that experience again and again brings about the taste the experience of
iman almost a tangible flavor that you taste in your mouth and that is why al-baihri hinderates in
his sunnah on the authority of abdullah that the messenger sallallahu alaihi
wasallam said there are three characteristics whoever
attains them will experience the taste of iman it's a simple recipe subhanallah
number one whoever singles out allah in worship
because there is no god but allah so the taste of iman is not offered to the worshippers of christ
or the worshippers of ausair or the worshippers of a statue or the worshippers of buddha or the people of
no faith the sweetness of iman is exclusive to those who worship allah and specifically
to those who single him out in tawheed in oneness that's number one what is the second recipe
for those who want to experience him iman he says
a person number two a person who gives out the zakah from his money agreeably meaning he's content
he gives out the zakah not with lethargy with heaviness but with happiness with love
with enthusiasm a person who does that will taste the sweetness of iman and then in the hadith he describes the
conditions of some of the conditions of zakah and then he gives us the third
he said and a person who purifies himself
this person will experience iman a person who goes through the process of taz kiya now you're thinking what is the
process of this gear i'm thinking the same question the sahaba they asked it they said oh messenger of allah what is the nature of a person who
purifies himself what did he say this is the shahid this is the point of the hadith underlying this he said
it is when a person truly realizes that allah is with him wherever he goes that is task
simple concept but how rare it is to find it amongst the people these are the three characteristics for
those who want to taste iman one of them is murakaba to be watchful of allah to know that allah is with you wherever you go this is the second thing allah awards
the people of murakada they taste iman may allah allow us to taste iman the third of them
who shades them on the day of judgment there was so much suppression of heat needed
especially in the life of the young man or the young woman suppressing the heat of desire through their muraka their
watchfulness of allah so allah gives them shade to call them off on the day of judgment as they thank you subhanallah
as you sow so shall you reap have you noticed in the famous hadith
that speaks about the seven people whom allah will shade on the day of judgment most of them if not all of them share one thing
they have one thing in common if you think about it they are people of murakada who are the seven you remember the
hadith right the famous bukhari and muslim narration on the authority of abu hurayrah that the messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam said
there are seven categories of people who will be shaded on the day of judgement when there is no shade but his who are they count with me number one
who was the first al yeah chronologically they say or he said
it is the just ruler the just what ruler
why was he just did he need to be just no because he is a ruler sovereignty is in his hands authority of
the land is with him so he doesn't need to be just but he is just why because of his murakam
he doesn't need to be but the watchful eye of allah that he knows is upon him pushes him to be just on the land
it goes back to it
[Music]
what is the second of the two second of the seven he said
a young man who grew up in the worship of allah may allah make every one of you dear brothers and sisters amongst this category a young muslim who grows up in
the worship of allah what made him or her grow up in the worship of allah when desires had reached an all-time high energy is at a peak and
whatever you ask of your body it will fulfill it for you because health is on your side vitality is on your side the future is on your side
but they suppress all of that they keep it at bay and they worship allah what what made them do that it is
their watchfulness of allah that's number two number three what was the third of the seven
a person whose heart is is hung in the masjid a person whose heart is hung in the masjid he didn't say a person who lives
in a masjid or a person who is always in the masjid that would be difficult but the heart is there so every opportunity you have you go
back what is it that pushed him or her to the masjid each and every time it is the watchfulness of allah the heart is
there and then number four he said two people who loved each other purely
for the sake of allah they come together for his sake and they depart for his sake it is for the sake of allah
they're doing it for him there's no mutual interest they don't support the same football team they may not even speak the same dialect
but they love each other why because of their lord they are watching him and then he said number five
and a man who was seduced by a beautiful and high ranking woman to fornicate
and he said i can't do that i fear allah the situation is perfect the beauty is
there and the status is there meaning the ability to cover up the crime is there and nevertheless he said i fear allah
how come because of his watchfulness of allah do you see it's all going back to the
same concept and then number six is
a person who gives out a charity so secretly that his left hand doesn't know what his right hand gave and in another narration
his right hand doesn't know what his left hand gave why did he do that why is he hiding it from one hand to the other
because he's aware of the watchful eye of allah it goes back to the same concept
and number seven what was number seven
who remembers allah all by himself she remembers him all by herself and their eyes begin to weep
what brought those tears it wasn't an emotional initiate it wasn't looking at somebody else who was weeping it wasn't a tragedy
nothing induced those tears except his or her murak about allah do you see how allah gives them shade
qiyama really brothers as i was thinking subhanallah this morning when i was looking at this information it's
so easy to just consume this as data as text and i encourage you to write and i'm sad
to see that it's only a inshallah a growing minority who are writing but this is a tragedy but the real
challenge is to convert this the theory into a vivid reality in your life what does it mean to be shaded on yom kiyama when there is no shade but his i mean
it's only 50 000 years long that day and the sun is only a mile away from our heads and people will perspire according to their deeds
the people of murakaba are blessed with what they are established on the land and they are what they taste the
sweetness of iman and they what they are blessed with shade on the day of judgment all because they are
constantly aware completely cognisant of the eye of allah that never sleeps another one of the
awards that who gives the people of murakaba is that he gives them farasa
what is farasa how do we translate it what are your thoughts what is farah
like an insight like a sixth sense yeah like an intuition
those who are constantly aware of the eye of allah that is upon them they really feel it they experience it it governs their life
it manages their choices their decisions allah gives them a way of discerning between right and wrong in a way which he doesn't give
most other people this is a divine light that allah casts into the
heart of the believer i'm sure you appreciate the need of it today this is what farasa farasa is
farasa is like a a sharp persuasion
that penetrates your heart and it dominates your opinion and overwhelms it
the same way that a lion dominates its prey and overwhelms it and gives it no chance to escape that is what farasa is
penetrates your heart it dominates your opinion and and here i draw your attention to the similarity in the etymology of the word faraza intuition
and farisa the prey animal the element of your mind being dominated by opinion and you're just sure of
something and that is allah who taught you and who showed you the way out of confusion and i'm sure you will agree that in an era that is defined by hoaxes
and scams and fake news and filters and botox injections and the glittery
deceptions of dunya the believer is in need of this mechanism
he and she they need this tool this divine insight to see through this confusion and these clouds of ambiguity
and to find what is pleasing to allah amidst this mess and maybe you've come across the famous
incident that happened to amir al-mu'min othman ibn al-qaim he mentioned this the narrator of the hadith or the event
is another sahabi but i won't take his name just to honor him but he said
that i was walking to the masjid on one day and my eye fell on a woman and i i didn't lower my gaze like i like i should have
so i came into the masjid and uthman who saw me
and then he made an announcement he said why is it that one of you comes into the masjid and the traces of fornication are all
over his eyes subhanallah this is what we mean by intuition to look with the eye of allah
we're in the light of allah subhanahu wa so this sahabi said to us
is this revelation from allah after the prophet muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam he said no this is not revelation but this is for us
this is true this is true true true intuition what do you know about uthman
how shy was he of his lord so shy that the angels felt his sinus of
allah so they became shy over him and saw the prophet saws and became shy of both man a man of immense mura so allah gave him
this type of this intuition this this sixth sense so it's very much connected
with the lowering of the gaze faraza generally speaking to be conscious of allah it brings about for us but
specifically there is a link between it and lowering the gaze from the haram they have the deepest insight
and perhaps this is the reason why in suratul the chapter of the light where allah tells us
to tell the righteous men or tell the believing men until they believe in women to lower their gaze just a few verses after it what does allah say allah moves
allah is the light of the heavens as if to say that when you do that you will be gifted with somebody
[Music]
he gives us a five part recipe to how parasite is to be attained technology
and prevents himself from being permissible designs
and beautifies his inner state with
what will happen so this is number one brothers do you
have notes this is number one number four allah will
that does not miss the mark and i hope you have seen your need for it especially today
number five allah who awards the people of murakaba with the love of the believers hide what you want
and do what you want behind closed doors if you insist upon it long enough rest assured it's going to be made public
and that applies to the good and the bad this is this is a principle and they mean a believer who has
conscious of allah we said you can't taste it you can't experience it you can't smell it he has it she has it
people will sense it and they don't know what it is about you that is so attractive from a muslim
perspective allah gives love to this individual on the fact that he or she is a person of
murakam but when nobody else sees uthman he said as
of he said anybody who has a secret in his heart sooner or later it will come out from
their facial expressions or the slip of their tongue it has to be made public and i love the words of imam ibn al-jawsi
really transformational words about this think about what he says he says
a person's private conduct has a huge influence on how people see
him in public something you do in seclusion away from the eyes of people and you thought no one saw it
he said no no no there is a huge link between what a person does at private and how people will see them in public
and then he explains how many believers there are
who honor allah almighty in privacy and they leave a desire that they really wanted to do
out of the fear of allah's punishment or out of hope and reward or out of just veneration of him they
leave it despite wanting it and desire flowing through their veins they leave it what happens as a result
listen to his words it's it's like a portrait of beauty he says
he said when he does that when he suppresses his impermissible desire behind closed doors
and he succeeds against his soul what happens he says it will be as if he has just placed
an incense stick aloes wood onto a live coal an ember and as a result a beautiful scent emanates
that all of the people smell but they don't know where it is sourced you see what he is saying
so the moment you overcome that impulse to do something haram when no one is looking and you succeed in that battle that day
it's like your beautiful scent will now emanate from you and people will smell it
and people will be attracted and people will see a light upon you that you may not see in your mirror reflection
and they don't know where the smell is coming from what it is that you do that makes you that special but they know something is special about you
and then he said for some people this scent will live on after they die
people will continue smelling it from them subhanallah meaning they're praised people love them people want to be near them people want
to remem remember their monarch their virtues he says some people it will last a hundred days
but then the scent will disappear other people that scent will remain for a year and then the scent will disappear and he
said other people there sent their good fragrance remains with humanity till the end of time praising them
speaking well of them making dua for them till the day we meet allah based upon what
abdul jazi says based upon how they conducted their affairs when no one was looking that's what did it remember when we were introducing the
series how many times did we say this imam was rose to fame and because he had secrets and imam malik rose to fame
somebody said it must be that he had secrets this is one of the secrets then you have murakaba watchfulness of allah when no one is looking
and allah makes you a person who is praised he gives you a position of praise in dunya before
allah gives them love another one of the elements this is number six
that is given to the people of murakaba this is perhaps the most obvious gift this is perhaps the feature of the
people of murakaba that every sheikh or scholar or student of knowledge will speak about when discussing it it's the biggest feature and the most obvious
gift given to a person who becomes an individual of murakada what is that
he or she is awarded by allah an iron wall that stands between them and sins
allah gives them so much strength to overcome sins that other people are falling prey to because they are
conscious of the watchful eye of allah it's obvious isn't it
they know allah is watching they fear they feel it and so instantly this sprouts at their manners with their lord they don't want to see
they don't want to be seen by their beloved trespassing because they have read in the quran
does he not know that allah can see and they read in the quran
allah knows of the sly treacherous glances of the eye and everything that the heart hides
they read in the quran yes they hide from the people but they do not hide from allah.
[Music]
but he is with them when they are conspiring at night that speech which displeases him what can
allah be and allah is encompassing of everything they do they read in the quran
it is the same to allah for those who speak secretly or those who speak loudly
women who are muslim or those who go hiding in the night wasari and those who go out forth fourthly by
day it's all the same to allah night and day privacy and public he sees it all
and they read in the quran don't you know that allah knows
everything in the heavens and the earth allah
there is no secret gathering of three people except that allah is their forth
and there's no secret gathering of five except that allah is their sixth and no gathering that is less or more
than that in namba except that he is present with them wherever they may be
then allah will inform them about what they did on the day of judgment allah knows all things
so they are aware of all of these ayat and these divine descriptions of himself subhanallah so it serves as a firewall between them
and sins and that is why when a man he said to wahhabinward revani give me advice
he gave him heart shattering advice he said
he said beware of making allah the least significant of all observers
don't make allah the least significant of all observers in your life the thought of somebody exposing your sin
or seeing you on the job causes our hair to stand on end
imagine someone taps on your shoulder 20 minutes into your deed and says to you i'm sorry i i saw all of that
imagine imagine it's it's a tab that you thought was minimized allah
or a conversation that you thought was genuine it turns out it was tapped or a
long-term relationship in the haram that you thought was genuine it was going somewhere it turns out it was a setup and now you've got a big collision
course with a scandal coming your way that the thought of being observed by
humans during our moments of weakness is a scary and embarrassing one that causes anxiety in fact
some people when observed by a child when they are doing a deed of theirs they will feel a level of embarrassment they may hesitate wait until the child
leaves can it be that we have placed allah
at the bottom of those list of observers beware he said of making allah the least
significant of all observers imabn al-jawsi
he said that a man called abu hamidi said to imam what is your opinion on these couplets
of poetry that people say to remind people about allah he said like what give me give me a
preview give me an example he said some people they say
if my lord says to me were you not embarrassed to disobey me and you would hide sins from people
but you had no problem showing them to me imam ahmad said to abu hamid repeat that one more time please
so he repeated the couplet of poetry but he didn't give a verdict or an answer he walked away and he entered into his house and closed
the door and the narrator said we could hear imam ahmad sobbing in his house as he was reciting those couplets again
and again so they are given a wall of iron the
people of muraka between them and sins thinking a hundred times before shawling falling short towards their lord
either first
another poet he says if you find yourself alone and your soul is urging you to commit a sin
during the evening then be shy of the eye of allah and say to it that the one who created the night can still see me
and the third poet he says
he says how many times have i found myself alone with a person whom i desire but it is my fear and shyness of allah
that prevents me from making a move and then he says sin is not what defines love he says true love is not about
committing a sin after all he says what is the use of a pleasure if it ends up taking you to hell
so a person of murakaba dear brothers and sisters thinks once and twice and thrice before clicking or double tapping or responding or doing what he or she
does to give them that appeasement in the evening a wall an iron wall that stands between them and and sins it is one of the
greatest and most obvious gifts that allah gives to a person who actualizes aware of the eye of allah
and they are always in a state of internal conversation murakaba is like a cloud that hovers
over their head accompanying them wherever they may go for them murakama is like a a voice that speaks to them from within
every time they're on the verge of crossing a limit they hear that voice raising its tone
and it says o my soul if you are about to commit the sin
whilst thinking that allah can't see you then how severe is your for your
disbelief in allah subhanahu wa but oh my soul if you're committing the sin whilst knowing that he can see you
then how little is your your shyness of allah subhana wa oh my soul the person of murakada says
why are you avoiding a confrontation with this with these tough tough questions when you know that the land is his
and the skies are his and sovereignty is his and those limbs that you are using to disobey him are his their alone
o my soul how can it be that you have made allah the least significant of all observers so do you see the person of murakama
is gifted with this tool a wall that stands between them and sins and they have so much to think about before actualizing it
and when they do they are quick to make amends with their lord the people of murakaba are also awarded
with jannah that is where the people of murakaba will rest before that it is a constant state of jihad
and that is why who said in a very reassuring ayah for you and i he said
as for he who is scared of the standing before his lord on the day of judgment
and he forbids his soul from its desire what is the outcome
then indeed paradise that will be the home who is this person who fears the standing before his lord imam al-qartube
mentioned in his tavsir that mujahideen it's this
is in reference to a person he says who was on the verge of committing a sin but then remembers he will stand before
allah so he walks away out of the fear of his lord as for he who fears the standing before
his lord and prohibits his soul from its wants then janna that will be the home
very quickly let us conclude what is the pathway to murakaba for those who are interested i'm going
to suggest four very quick points take note of them if these gifts mean anything to you
then here is a suggestion how you and i can try to work towards them the first of them to know
there is no potent more of a potent way to attain the station of murakam than to know who it is you are watching and thinking about
and give special attention to the study of his names and his attributes start a concerted study of his names find a
course find a book read it understand it and then move to the next and focus on those specific names of
allah subhanahu wa ta'ala that will like which names the
watching ah what else a samir the ever hearing what else
the all-knowing what else the ever seeing
exactly the subtle the one who knows the finest details the witness and
the all-encompassing and watch how you will be forced into the meadows of murakaba when you
understand that this is the lord who is above me our mother she said a woman called khaolabintu alaba comes to my house
complaining of her husband and between me and her and the prophet sallallahu alaihi whom she was sat with complaining too
was only a thin veil a small gap maybe one and a half meters and she said her speech was muffled i couldn't make out entirely what she was
saying and then allah reveals an ayah which is
the words of the woman who was arguing with you o prophet about her husband watash and she is appealing to allah
yes and allah hears your conversation in allah allah he hears and he and he sees
so is glory be to the one whose hearing
encompasses everything between me and khala was a meter or so and i could barely make out what she was
saying on allah from above seven heavens here's the details of the conversation
so a person who knows allah what will happen they will find themselves slowly becoming an individual of murakaba you
have to know him first number two recite the book of allah with contemplation with ted
one of the predecessors he said come in
he said there were so many sins i wanted to commit at night when no one was looking but i was prevented each and every time
when i remembered an ayah that ayah is from surah rahman where allah says whoever fears the standing before his
lord allah will give him two gardens quran is another shield in the face of those temptations and
sins for those who want murakaba it begins with the recitation of quran with contemplation that is the condition
number three to be aware of the consequences of abusing murakama
and you know what i mean when you know the consequences of something if it's not the carrot approach it's the stick approach
if it's not the incentives that will bring us to murakaba then let us understand the threats what is in stock for somebody who
crosses limits over and over again boldly and audaciously in one of the most terrifying a hadith
which ibn umar generates on the authority of the band that the messenger sallallahu alaihi wasallam said i know
certain segments of my nation who will come on the day of judgment
with mountains of good deeds allahu akbar there is your jihad there is your salah there is your sadaqa there is your
da'wah there is your dutifulness to your mother and father there is your help to your society and community there are
mountains of good deeds the outcome allah and allah will render all of those
mountains of good deeds into dust they have nothing with allah the sahaba they said so
of allah describe them to us lest we may be these people without us knowing here comes the description
he said they are your brothers
and they pray at night the same way you pray at night they are people of qiyam so
what went wrong he says he said however they were people
whom when they were alone with the limits of allah they would cross them
it's a terrifying reality dear brothers and sisters really so to understand the outcome
of not being a person of murakaba watchfulness of allah i ask you personally individually and i pose the
same question to myself and i certainly know the answer for myself if your life with all of its details
it's good and bad moments its righteous and unrighteous moments were to be put together as a film
would you watch it would you be comfortable gathering your friends and family
to watch it honestly would you be comfortable for that film to be broadcasted on national tv
if the answer is no and that's how i would answer that question for myself most certainly then it means perhaps we need to give a
little bit more attention to the production of that film because you and i are authoring that script as we speak
through our address through our business choices through our relationships how we present ourselves online offline
through what we sell what we consume what we inhale where we look at you are authoring the script of your life and on the day of judgement many people will
have to read out their own story allah says we will bring him on the day
of judgment a book that he will find is already open don't worry about opening it there's your book it's open
allah will say read your book you are
enough as a reckoner against yourself what were the three steps we've mentioned so far
to know allah to recite quran with contemplation and to understand the
the consequences of not acting upon i will leave you with the fourth and that is
to be aware of some of the stories of the people of murakaba
and endeavor to put yourself on that list i'm going to share with you just a few short ones
al-ghazali he mentions in his book
he said we stopped off we camped in the latter part of the night and then a shepherd came to us from a
nearby hill with sheep umar said to him sell me please one of your sheep
the shepherd said indi look i'm a slave i don't have the authority to do that
he said homer now wants to test him he said why don't you um tell your master that a wolf came and ate it
just give us one then he gave a response my dear brothers my dear sisters that summarizes the
purpose of every book of artider that you may have studied he gave a two word response that caused umar to weep
give me one of your sheep tell your master that a wolf ate it he said allah where is allah in all of this
the shepherd said where is allah in all of this i can't do that ahmad began to cry
on the very next day omar made his way to the master of that slave and he paid his price in full and omar
set him free then umar gave him his farewell parting message he said listen to me
that word you said yesterday has given you freedom in the life of this dunya and i am hopeful that allah will give you freedom on the day
of judgment as well and another story which
mentions in his book he said that there was a woman who was abducted by a soldier he wanted to rape her
he was a righteous god-fearing woman he took her into the room her neighbors came out to try to defend her but they couldn't fend off the guards and the
soldiers who were defending this this general he took her into the room and he closed the doors and he began to entice her she
refused no way haram allah is watching and so he did what most of these monsters they do and he
began to force himself on her just before he carried out his devilish demonic intent
she said wait wait there's one more door you haven't closed close it he said which door she said the door that is between you and allah
he moved away from her and he said to her please leave allah has saved you
what saved her brothers sisters have you heard of
the second generation muslim didn't meet the prophet sallallahu alaihi he met the sahaba even said to arabia if the
prophet salallahu he would have loved you and every time i see you i remember those who are devout to allah this is
his era and his peers became jealous of him and so they conspired to
seduce him out of his faith and they spoke to a woman who was known for her beauty in the city
and they said to her we need you to tempt out of his faith she said no problem
so he's coming out of the masjid on one evening and he sees the woman there and then she uncovers her nikab her
facial covering and he sees beauty the narration says it's like a portion of the moon and
begins to cry so she said why why are you crying he said i'm crying because
i am sad to see such beauty taking such a misguided path
for it then to be seen as a charcoaled skull in the fire of heaven she covered her face and went to the
masjid and became one of the greatest worshipers what what saved him and what saved her
and the last of the four i wanted to share with you of these stories is that which is mentioned this is a profound incident actually in
his book said that there was a woman who was looking in the mirror in mecca
in her bedroom next to her husband and then she goes do you think that there is anyone who
sees this face but then won't be tempted by it that's confidence right is there anyone out there who can see
this and not be like whoa she's lush so her husband goes yeah there is actually one man
she said who he said this is the wild of mecca the admonisher of mecca student of aisha
she said he can you you can't get through to obey the nominee with nothing like that she said do you give me permission to try and seduce him he said yeah go and
try so yeah i need footnote here this is obviously a a swine of a human being
no jealousy no yeah i go so um he's in the haram of mecca next to the kaaba he's teaching
and answering people's questions and she comes along and you know they take to a
side of the masjid in this public space and then she uncovers her face and again she was described as a woman
of immense beauty he turns away he said anata allah
bonds woman of allah veil yourself she said to him india she said you you've tempted me so much
this is like in the half she said no you you've tempted me so he understands what she's trying to
do and what she's getting at he said to her look i have a few questions to ask you
if you're truthful in your response i may consider fulfilling your request she said yeah ask he said if the angel of
death was to come to you at this hour and your soul begins to shudder now in its exit would you be happy that i had fulfilled
your request for you at this moment she said no by allah i wouldn't he said i know you wouldn't
he said tell me if you are lowered into your grave and then the two angels make their entry and then they set you up and they begin the
interrogation that will now determine your future would you be happy knowing that you and i had committed this act at this moment
she said by allah i wouldn't he said i know you wouldn't he said tell me if on the day of judgment you see the books flying around
everywhere the books of deeds and you don't know if you're going to catch your book in your right or left hand and you're nervous and scared would you be happy at that hour that i had
fulfilled your request for you she said by a lie with it he said i know you wouldn't he said to her when you find yourself
standing at the sirat the bridge that leads over hell and takes to paradise and you see people dropping would you be happy at that moment to know that i had
fulfilled this request of yours she said no by a lie with it
he said i know you wouldn't he said tell me if the scales are brought and you see the deeds of people being
weighed and you don't know which side of the scales will weigh in your favor or against you would you be happy that i
had committed this thing with you she said no by allah i wouldn't he said i know you wouldn't
he said to her tell me when you find yourself standing before al-malik the king al-jabbar they compel allah and he asks you about all of your deeds
when you are alive would you be happy then to know that we had did we had done this
she said by allah i wouldn't he said he said to her because allah has done
good to you allah has not fallen short towards you she got up she made her way back to her husband her
husband goes okay how'd it go juicy goss right how'd it go
she goes anta you're we're both idiots
and then she turned to salah and fasting and ibadah and her husband he said after this
incident mali wali al-baydev
he said on each night she was a beautiful bride and he's now transformed into a nun
allah al-mustan these are some of the snapshots of murakab i wanted to share with you and these are four ways a suggestion for you
and i to traverse a path on the long journey of morocco that we ask allah subhana wa tala to give us
a healthy and wholesome portion of murakada sallallahu